The sinuses are a series
of interconnected,
hollow spaces in the skull.
Their walls are lined with
mucus-secreting membranes.
Small hairs sweep the mucus
out of the sinuses
so it can drain out
through your nose.
These mucus membranes may
become infected or inflamed
because of a cold or allergies,
and can swell up and block
the nasal passages
so that the fluid from
the sinuses can’t drain.
Buildup of fluid in the sinuses
causes pressure and pain.
Doctors call this sinusitis.
Acute sinusitis comes on
quickly and then leaves.
With chronic sinusitis,
people have symptoms virtually
all the time
and take many courses of medications,
such as antibiotics,
to treat the inflammation.
Severe sinusitis
may require surgical opening
of the passageways with rigid,
steel instruments placed up
through the nostril
to remove bone
and tissue blocking the drainage.
Recently, a new, less invasive technology
called balloon sinuplasty
has been introduced.
Using this technology,
a balloon catheter is delivered
to the blocked passageway
and is gently inflated,
widening the opening of the passageway,
and thus allowing drainage
and relief of the pain and pressure.